Update README.md (#1243)
pulumi/pulumi-kubernetes: provider/cmd/crd2pulumi/README.md

# crd2pulumi

> Generate strongly-typed CustomResources based on a k8s CustomResourceDefinition (CRD).

Reviewer: Should we keep it spelled out as "Kubernetes"?

```suggestion
Generate strongly-typed CustomResources based on a Kubernetes CustomResourceDefinition (CRD).
```

## Goals

`crd2pulumi` is a CLI tool that generates strongly-typed CustomResources based on a Kubernetes CRD. CustomResourceDefinitions allow you to extend the Kubernetes API by defining your schemas for custom objects. Pulumi lets you create [CustomResources](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/pkg/kubernetes/apiextensions/customresource/), but previously there was no strong-typing for these objects since every schema was, well, custom. This can be a massive headache for popular CRDs such as [cert-manager](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/tree/master/deploy/crds) or [istio](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/0321da58ca86fc786fb03a68afd29d082477e4f2/manifests/charts/base/crds), which contain thousands of lines of complex YAML schemas. By generating strongly-typed versions of CustomResources, crd2pulumi makes filling out their arguments more convenient because it lets you leverage existing IDE type checking and autocomplete features.

> Currently, this tool only works for TypeScript and Go, but support for Python
> and .NET is coming soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, TypeScript and Go are supported, with support for Python
and .NET coming soon.
```

## Building and Installation

> If you wish to use `crd2pulumi` without developing the tool itself, you can use one of the [binary releases](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-kubernetes/releases/tag/crd2pulumi/v1.0.0) hosted on GitHub.

Reviewer: Nit: Blank line

```suggestion

If you wish to use `crd2pulumi` without developing the tool itself, you can use one of the [binary releases](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-kubernetes/releases/tag/crd2pulumi/v1.0.0) hosted on GitHub.
```

`crd2pulumi` uses Go modules to manage dependencies. If you want to develop `crd2pulumi` itself, you'll need to have Go installed in order to build. Once this prerequisite is installed, run the following to build the `crd2pulumi` binary and install it into `$GOPATH/bin`:

> ```bash

Reviewer: Nit: blank line

```suggestion

```bash
```

$ go build -o $GOPATH/bin/crd2pulumi main.go
```

> Go should automatically handle pulling the dependencies for you.

Reviewer: Nit: Blank line

```suggestion

Go should automatically handle pulling the dependencies for you.
```

If `$GOPATH/bin` is not on your path, you may want to move the `crd2pulumi` binary from `$GOPATH/bin` into a directory that is on your path.

## Usage

```bash
$ crd2pulumi <language> <crd file path> [output directory] [--force]
```

`<language>` is the target language to generate code for, so either `nodejs` or `go`.

`<crd file path>` is the path to the k8s CRD YAML file.

`[output directory]` is an optional path to the directory in which to output the
code to. If this field is not specified, then crd2pulumi will automatically output
to the same directory as the CRD YAML file.

`[--force]` is an optional flag to overwrite existing files if crd2pulumi would
write to directories or files that already exist. By default this is set to false.

## Examples

> Let's use the example CronTab CRD specified in `resourcedefinition.yaml` from the [Kubernetes Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/). 

Reviewer: Nit: blank line

```suggestion

Let's use the example CronTab CRD specified in `resourcedefinition.yaml` from the [Kubernetes Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/). 
```

### Output to NodeJS

To generate a strongly-typed CronTab CustomResource in NodeJS, we can run this command:

> ```bash

Reviewer: Nit: blank line

```suggestion

```bash
```

$ crd2pulumi nodejs resourcedefinition.yaml
```

> By default, this will create the folder `./crontabs` in the same directory as `resourcedefinition.yaml`. Each versioned CustomResource will live under this folder, so since we had just specified `v1`, you'll see that a `./crontabs/v1` directory has been created. If we had defined a `v2` version in the CRD YAML file, you'd also see `./crontabs/v2`.

Reviewer: Nit: blank line

```suggestion

By default, this will create the folder `./crontabs` in the same directory as `resourcedefinition.yaml`. Each versioned CustomResource will live under this folder, so since we had just specified `v1`, you'll see that a `./crontabs/v1` directory has been created. If we had defined a `v2` version in the CRD YAML file, you'd also see `./crontabs/v2`.
```

`./crontabs` contains two useful classes: `v1.CronTab` and `CronTabDefinition`. `v1.Crontab` is the strongly-typed CustomResource for CronTab, and `CronTabDefinition` is a helper class that provisions the CRD YAML schema in a single line. Now we can instantiate a Pulumi project and import the generated code. 

Now let's create a Pulumi program that provisions the CRD and creates an instance of it. Create a Pulumi project and set up the following `index.ts` file:

```typescript
import * as crontabs from "./crontabs"
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi"

const cronTabDefinition = new crontabs.CronTabDefinition("my-crontab-definition")

const myCronTab = new crontabs.v1.CronTab("my-new-cron-object",
{
    metadata: {
        name: "my-new-cron-object",
    },
    spec: {
        cronSpec: "* * * * */5",
        image: "my-awesome-cron-image",
    }
})

export const urn = myCronTab.urn;
```

> As you can see, the `v1.CronTab` object is strongly-typed. So if you try to set

Reviewer: Nit: blank line
```suggestion

As you can see, the `v1.CronTab` object is strongly-typed. So if you try to set
```

`cronSpec` to a non-string or add an extra field, your IDE should immediately tell you. Also, the `CronTabDefinition` class lets you create the CRD with a single line, whereas previously you would manually write out the entire `resourcedefinition.yaml` schema as a `k8s.apiextensions.v1.CustomResourceDefinition` object.

### Output to Go

Here's an example of the same program, but written in Go. To generate a strongly-typed CronTab CustomResource, we can run this command:

> ```bash

Reviewer: Nit: blank line

```suggestion

```bash
```

$ crd2pulumi go resourcedefinition.yaml
```

> Like with NodeJS, this will create a `./crontabs` folder. The relevant code lives in

Reviewer: Nit: blank line

```suggestion

Like with NodeJS, this will create a `./crontabs` folder. The relevant code lives in
```

`./crontabs/v1/crontabs.go`. If we had multiple versions, they would be generated in `./crontabs/v2/crontabs.go`, `./crontabs/v3/crontabs.go`, etc...

> Now we can access the `NewCronTab()` constructor. Create a `main.go` file with the following:
> 
> 
> 
> ```go

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can access the `NewCronTab()` constructor. Create a `main.go` file with the following:

```go
```

                        "replicas": v1.JSONSchemaPropsArgs{
                          Type: pulumi.StringPtr("integer"),
                        },
                      },
                    },
                  },
                },
              },
            },
          },
          Scope: pulumi.String("Namespaced"),
          Names: v1.CustomResourceDefinitionNamesArgs{
            Plural:     pulumi.String("crontabs"),
            Singular:   pulumi.StringPtr("crontab"),
            Kind:       pulumi.String("CronTab"),
            ShortNames: pulumi.StringArray{pulumi.String("ct")},
          },
        },
      },
    )
    if err != nil {
      return err
    }

    cronTabInstance, err := crontabs.NewCronTab(ctx, "my-new-cron-object",
      &crontabs.CronTabArgs{
        Metadata: metav1.ObjectMetaArgs{
          Name: pulumi.StringPtr("my-new-cron-object"),
        },
        Spec: crontabs.CronTabSpecArgs{
          CronSpec: pulumi.StringPtr("* * * * */5"),
          Image:    pulumi.StringPtr("my-awesome-cron-image"),
        },
      },
    )
    if err != nil {
      return err
    }

    ctx.Export("urn", cronTabInstance.URN())
    return nil
  })
}
```

> Unforunately we currently don't generate a helper `NewCronTabDefinition()` function,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately we currently don't generate a helper `NewCronTabDefinition()` function,
```

Is this on the roadmap? Can we say "coming soon"?

so you'll still have to manually write out the CRD arguments. However the `CronTab` CustomResource is strongly-typed, so you can use the generated `crontabs.CronTabSpecArgs` struct to ensure your arguments are valid. This is a great improvement compared to filling out a `map[string]interface{}`, which was the previous solution for k8s `CustomResources`.

Now let's run the program and perform the update.

> ```bash
> $ pulumi up
> ```
> 
> ```bash
> Previewing update (dev):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
$ pulumi up
Previewing update (dev):
```

  Type                                                      Name                Plan
  pulumi:pulumi:Stack                                       examples-dev
 +   ├─ kubernetes:stable.example.com:CronTab                   my-new-cron-object  create
 +   └─ kubernetes:apiextensions.k8s.io:CustomResourceDefinition  my-crontab-definition  create
Resources:
  + 2 to create
  1 unchanged

> Do you want to perform this update?  [Use arrows to move, enter to select, type to filter]
> > yes
>   no
>   details
> ```
> 
> ```bash
> Do you want to perform this update? yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do you want to perform this update? yes
```

Updating (dev):
  Type                                                      Name                Status
  pulumi:pulumi:Stack                                       examples-dev
 +   ├─ kubernetes:stable.example.com:CronTab                   my-new-cron-object  created
 +   └─ kubernetes:apiextensions.k8s.io:CustomResourceDefinition  my-crontab-definition  created
Outputs:
  urn: "urn:pulumi:dev::examples::kubernetes:stable.example.com/v1:CronTab::my-new-cron-object"
Resources:
  + 2 created
  1 unchanged
Duration: 17s
Permalink: https://app.pulumi.com/albert-zhong/examples/dev/updates/4
```

It looks like both the CronTab definition and instance were both created! Finally, let's verify that they were created
by manually viewing the raw YAML data:

```bash
$ kubectl get ct -o yaml
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: I realize this is the output from the shell, so "bash" is technically correct, but since you have it as a separate code block, wondering if it'd render nicer as "yaml".

```suggestion
```yaml
```
